# AI Generated Text Detection Project

This project aims to develop a web application for detecting whether a given text is generated by AI or written by a human. The application utilizes natural language processing (NLP) techniques and machine learning models to make predictions.

## Contributors
- Urvi Joshi
- Prakruti Bhavsar
- Payal Gupta

## Key Features
1. **User Interface:** The web application provides a user-friendly interface where users can select a question from a predefined list and input their answers.
2. **Backend Prediction:** Upon submitting the form, the input question and answer are sent to the backend server for prediction.
3. **Prediction Algorithm:** The backend server employs a machine learning algorithm, specifically a Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier, trained on a dataset of human-generated and AI-generated texts.
4. **Natural Language Processing:** The input text undergoes preprocessing steps such as tokenization, lemmatization, and vectorization before being fed into the classifier.
5. **Response Handling:** The predicted label (whether the input text is human-generated or AI-generated) is returned to the front end and displayed to the user.

## Technologies Used
- Frontend: HTML, CSS, JavaScript (jQuery)
- Backend: Django (Python)
- Machine Learning Libraries: NLTK, scikit-learn
- Other Tools: GitHub for version control and project management

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/UrviJoshi21/AI-Generated-Text-Detection-Project.git
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
     cd AI-Generated-Text-Detection-Project
3. Install the required Python Libraries:
   ```bash
     pip install -r requirements.txt
## Usage
1. Run the Django server:
   ```bash
     python manage.py runserver
2. Access the web application through the provided URL.
   
